
Lloyds Banking Group is the UK’s largest retail and commercial bank, with over 13.7 million active online customers and 30m customers across our various businesses. We are investing over £3 billion to evolve our businesses for an increasingly digital world. As part of this strategy, we are collaborating with the Warwick Business School at the University of Warwick to fund new, focused research on how customers use their banking channels and technologies and to explore how these insights can support new initiatives to improve customer outcomes. 

I am writing to express support for the ESRC grant proposal "Understanding domestic abuse". I would act as the day-to-day contact within Lloyds Banking Group in my role as a [Behavioural Economics Specialist]. The project would be sponsored at a senior level by  [Martin King, Head of Customer Vulnerability]. The project sits alongside a portfolio of existing projects, of which the most relevant, exploring the association between gambling and financial and more broad detriment, is already underway. Insight from the project will be fed back to the Customer Vulnerability Team, and, if appropriate, beyond Lloyds Banking Group to the industry more broadly via UK Finance and the Financial Abuse Code of Practice. 

The Warwick-Lloyds collaboration model is to have Warwick Business School postdoctoral researchers work within Lloyds Banking Group as contractors, with access to the group data warehouse. As such, we can process transaction-level data from 20 million customers to construct geographic neighbourhood level summary measures of alcohol, gambling, and benefit payments over time and match these measures with domestic abuse data. The match to domestic abuse data is at the geographic neighbourhood level and not the level of the individual. For example, in this way we could explore how the roll out of Universal Credit affects the incidence and reporting of domestic abuse.

Protecting vulnerable customers is a priority for Lloyds Banking Group and, as such, we are enthusiastic about supporting Warwick to improve understanding of domestic abuse.


