Draft points to include in letter from DCC Louisa Rolfe

I am writing to support the ESRC research proposal to the secondary data analysis initiative “Understanding Domestic Abuse”. At West Midlands Police I serve as Deputy Chief Constable. I oversee the WMP2020 change programme. I am also the National Police Chiefs’ Council lead for domestic abuse. I led the UK police response to HMIC’s report Everyone’s Business – which focused on improving the response to domestic abuse survivors – urging forces to prioritise domestic abuse and securing substantial improvements across the service.  

West Midlands police are committed to understanding problems and tackling them through evidence-based policing. West Midlands Police run a portfolio of academic collaborations, and have been collaborating with Dr Mullett and Prof. Stewart at Warwick University and their Centre for Operational Policing Research for several years. Ongoing projects include improving risk assessment in custody and understanding the causes of disproportionate stop and search.

Mullett and Stewart’s laboratory at the University of Warwick already hold the required fields from the West Midlands Police crimes and incidents data from 2010. We already have a signed data sharing agreement in place. Warwick already have the data in an appropriate secure environment with access limited to Mullett, Stewart, and Trendl. Mullett, Stewart, and Trendl have already undergone police vetting. We give permission for them to use the West Midlands Police crimes and incidents data for this research on domestic abuse. 

Domestic abuse is a priority area for West Midlands Police. We anticipate impactful findings from this research project. We already have a good relationship for disseminating research back into the force --- we were delighted to have Prof. Stewart’s present research on domestic abuse, alcohol, and football as part of our evidence based policing lunch and learn seminar series last month. We anticipate integrating evidence from this research into the way we police domestic abuse, with possible mechanisms including the THRIVE+ and DARA risk assessment tools, our initial response to reports of domestic abuse, our mechanisms for reaching victims of abuse (e.g., 





